---
layout: post
title:  "SIBs of DIME!"
tags: [Introduction, Dime, Sib]
last_updated: 2017-03-09T15:25:52-06:00
sidebar: blog_sidebar
feature_text: |
  ## Summary
  Brief description of DIME SIBs.How to create and use.
permalink: dime-sibs.html
datatable: true
toc: true
categories: about type dime
---
## DIME SIBs

In DIME, the actions and services are collected in domain specific palettes that are basically a service or component oriented DSL. The DSL elements correspond to (calls to) individual functionalities that are either directly implemented or provided by an external service provider, like e.g. the database. The individual functionalities are modelled as special native types called SIBs, for service-independent building blocks, where service-independent means that they are widely reusable across applications. These Native SIBs enable interoperability on a structural level. Within a Application, besides the pre-existing DIME SIBs we create Native SIBs for different operations such as data pre-population, CSV file import and export and to get field suggestions etc. 

You can find a good explanation [here](https://scce.gitlab.io/dime/content/user-guide/advanced/creating-a-native-library.html#create-a-service-library-project "A link")

Using a sib one can apply and perform their required operation with pure java programming. As DIME is improving day by day sooner you will be able to create sibs in R, Python etc. Sibs are model of java functions. We write a function create a sib from it and use it as a model/block to be used by DIME for any particular operation

#### Steps to create a Sib

   - Create the following structure to your project's dependency folder

```yaml
NewApp
-dependency (Java file location)
  -app-addon
  -native-library
   -src
    -main
     -java
      -info
       -scce
        -dime
         -app
          -common ( includes common sibs of dime)
          -yourfolder ( includes project's sib java code your defined .java files)
           - App.java
    -resource
   -pom.xml
 -pom.xml
```  
   - Create .java file inside 'yourfolder' to write your function e.g., App.java
   - Write yours functions in the java file
   - Create a .sibs file under dime-models folder e.g., project.sibs

```yaml
NewApp 
-dime-models (Sibs file location)
 -common.sibs       (auto created with application)
 -project.sibs      (created my you)
```
   - Write your Sib structure here

```
    /**
    * Checks is user is a voter or not
    * @param a : Age value
    * @return : Returns a text condition results
    */	
    sib VoterChect: info.scce.dime.app.dimedataa.App#voterByage
        a: integer           (input parameter)
        -> success           (if everything goes well)
            result: text     (output)
        -> noresult          (if fails)
```
   - Your sib will appear under Control section of model component view
   - Drag the sib into diagram editor of any process model and use.

## Video Tutorial 

Complete direction of the above discussion
<br>
 
{% include video.html id="mglPxcsWEdo" title="Siteleaf tutorial video" caption="About DIME SIBs. How to create and use." %}